8-bit audio is unsupported.

Handles sample params through a typical "smpl" chunk.
Also adds the following chunks:
	bext (BWF broadcast extension chunk)
	Elmo
	umid (BWF-related)
	minf
	regn
	ovwf


Elmo has its size set to 350, but it's all 0s.


umid
	The obvious guess is it's SMPTE 330M UMID data, just parted out to its own
	chunk instead of being included in the bext chunk, but it doesn't seem to
	line up.


regn and ovwf both have their size set to 4. They're both all 0s.


smpl
	Manufacturer ID is 16777235 (0x1000013). Product ID is 666 (0x29A). It does
	not require these to accept loop data, that's just what it writes if it
	writes the file itself.

	Sample period gets set to 0 by SampleCell Editor.

	The MIDI root note is used when setting root notes from audio files and when
	opening files from the zone menu, but it's inconsistent. It is never used
	when opening a file from the file menu.
	If the smpl chunk is ever modified; the root note is either left untouched,
	or has 60 (C4) writen to it.
	Sample loops size, the size of manufacturer-specific loop data that should
	come after the standard loop data, gets set to whatever the root note is.
	Even if the root note isn't 0, this "extra data" is nowhere to be found.
	I have at least one file where SampleCell Editor will read "Sample loops
	size" instead of the MIDI root note. I thought it might be down to whether
	"Sample loops size" is 0, as that's how it is on my other files; but setting
	it to 0 did not fix anything. This file also had the other chunks SampleCell
	Editor adds, whereas the other files didn't.

	Samples with a single loop will have the loop use ID 1. Samples with two
	loops will use IDs 1 and 2. The ID doesn't seem to matter, however; a sample
	with a single loop with ID 0 had its loop recognized and treated as the
	sustain + release loop (the expected behavior from SampleCell if there's a
	single loop). Uses the "Alternate" loop type (value 1) for what the editor
	calls "Fwd/bck", which does seem like the same thing.
