Regular AIFFs work. AIFF-C is unsupported (even with "NONE"-type "compression"),
at least on the Windows NT SampleCell Editor 2.1.3.

Documentation on the base format by Prof. Peter Kabal can be found here:
https://www-mmsp.ece.mcgill.ca/Documents/AudioFormats/AIFF/AIFF.html

Although these don't need a resource fork; in Mac-originated AIFFs sometimes
there's "LENV" and/or "RENV" resources, which I assume are envelopes. At least
some of those AIFFs had the file creator "Sd2a", so I assume SoundDesigner II
does that.
These files also contained "APPL" chunks, with "ALCHENVS" right at the start of
the chunk data. This seems rather redundant.

Much like with WAV, audio is handled in the standard way; and so is
sampler-related metadata (in this case, via chunks INST and MARK), for the most
part...

Much like it does with WAVs, SampleCell Editor adds the following chunks:
	bext
	Elmo
	umid
	minf
	regn
	ovwf

Yes, SampleCell Editor (at least the Windows version) adds the BWF bext chunk to
AIFFs (and the umid chunk). Seems to work the same way it does for WAVs.


INST
	The root note is used if opening a file from the sample zone menu or if
	setting root notes (using the "from file" option). It is ignored if opening
	the file from the file menu. Modifying the zone's root note, then modifying
	the sample did NOT write the new value to the AIFF.

	It sets gain to 0x7FFF. Keep in mind; the spec says gain is in number of dB,
	so this is insane.

	If only the sustain loop is present, the editor detects it just fine.
	I haven't tested what happens if only the release loop exists.
	If both loops are present; the sustain loop will be used as the sustain
	loop, and the release loop will be used as the release loop.


MARK
	Markers use names "beg_loop" and "end_loop" for both loops. Names need not
	be unique and don't really serve a functional purpose, this is just an
	observation.
	IDs are 0 - 3; with the first two being used by the sustain loop, and the
	latter two by the release loop. The use of ID 0 is technically somewhat
	non-standard, as the spec says "the ID can be any positive non-zero
	integer"; but this shouldn't really be a problem.
