The decomp (https://github.com/zeldaret/mm) and its tools were immensely helpful
for this. Pretty much all data structures I got from the decomp.
Z64Utils (https://github.com/Random06457/Z64Utils) is a good tool to work with
Z64 ROMs and their filesystems. z64decompress
(https://github.com/z64utils/z64decompress) can be used to decompress the ROMs.

Zelda64 bank data is divided into three parts: the bank table, the bank data and
the audio data.
The bank data file is usually called audiobank and the audio data file is
usually called audiotable.
The audio data is encoded using VADPCM.
Patches are divided into three types: Instruments, drums and sound effects.
Big-endian.

Bank table (TOC)
	The bank table appears to always be located near the end of the code file.
	It stores the number of banks and a 16-byte entry for each bank. Each entry
	contains the address, size and element counts of a bank. Sizes and addresses
	are uncompressed. According to the decomps, OoT has 38 banks and MM has 41
	banks. NTSC-J MM only has 40 banks.

	MM bank table locations
		NTSC-J: 0x138910 (from start of code), 656 (0x290) bytes.
	
		NTSC-U: According to isghj5's mm_audiobank_ripper it's at 0xC776C0
				(abs), 0x2A0 bytes.

		PAL: 0x132910 (from start of code), 672 (0x2A0) bytes.

	Table format
		0x00: Either padding or the upper byte of the bank count,
		0x01: Bank count. 8-bit uint.
		0x02: Likely padding. 14 bytes, all 0s.
		0x10: Bank entries.
	
	Bank entry format
		0x0: Start address. 32-bit uint.
		0x4: Size. 32-bit uint.
		0x8: Unknown. 4 bytes.
		0xC: Instrument count. 8-bit uint, but max is 126.
		0xD: Drum count. 8-bit uint, no limit.
		0xE: SFX count. 16-bit uint.

Looking at the TOC, it seems there's a maximum of 255 instruments, 255 drums and
65535 sound effects per bank. In practice, the instruments max out at 126
(according to the decomp "Instrument Id 126 and above is reserved. There can
only be 126 instruments, indexed from 0 to 125"). No such limitations seem to
apply to drums or sound effects. There can be at least one sample per sound
effect and up to 3 per instrument, so there can theoretically be 126 * 3 + 255 +
65535 (66168 total) samples per bank. Each sample can have its own loop and
book, so there's a theoretical maximum of 66168 loops and 66168 books per bank.
Each drum and each inst can have its own envelope, so there can be up to 381
envelopes per bank.

Banks
	All banks are stored within a single file (audiobank). Because the TOC
	already gives you the address and size of each bank, working with the bank
	file is pretty straightforward.
	
	A bank contains two offset tables, the general offset table and the drum
	offset table. All offsets are 32-bit. Offsets are relative to the start of
	the current bank, not the start of the bank file. Everything else is patch
	data; be it patches, samples, loops, etc.

	The general offset table is stored at the start of the bank and starts with
	two special offsets.
	The first one points to the drum offset table, so I've called it the
	drum-offset-table offset.
	The second one, the SFX offset, is an offset to the first sound effect
	entry. Sound effects are stored as a contiguous array of sound effect
	entries.
	The rest of the general offset table are offsets to instrument entries.
	Instrument offsets may be 0. Offsets of 0 should be ignored but still count
	toward the instrument count in the TOC (ie. the TOC's instrument count
	includes these null offsets).

	Both the drum-offset-table offset and the SFX offset may be null (when the
	drum count and/or SFX count are 0 in the TOC). On the other hand, I've seen
	banks that contain no drums that still have non-zero drum counts in the TOC.
	In those cases the drum-offset-table offset is not null, but the drum offset
	table is comprised entirely of null entries.

	The drum offset table is an array of offsets to drum instances. These
	offsets may also be 0. Null offsets should again be ignored and still count
	toward the TOC's drum count.

	Patches
		As stated earlier, these are divided into three types; instruments,
		drums and sound effects.

		All patches reference samples through "tuned samples". A tuned sample
		contains just an offset to the sample metadata and a tuning in the form
		of a single-precision float. Different tuned samples may point to the
		same sample. Different patches may point to the same tuned sample.

		Tuned sample (8 bytes)
			0x0: Sample offset. 32-bit uint. Offset from the start of the bank.
			0x4: Tuning. 32-bit float.

			The offset may be 0. In that case, the tuned sample should be
			ignored.
		
		The simplest patches are sound effects. These are, in fact, just a
		single tuned sample.
		Drums and intruments are proper patches. Instruments use up to three
		tuned samples. Drums are simpler and use one sample.

		Drum (16 bytes)
			0x0: ADSR decay index. 8-bit uint.
			0x1: Pan. 8-bit. Looks like it behaves like MIDI pan values.
			0x2: Relocated flag. 1 byte.
			0x3: Padding. 1 byte.
			0x4: Tuned sample. 8 bytes.
			0xC: Envelope offset. 32-bit uint. Offset from the start of the
				 bank.

		Instrument (32 bytes)
			0x00: Relocated flag. 1 byte.
			0x01: Normal sample low note. 1 byte. Looks like MIDI note values.
			0x02: Normal sample high note. 1 byte. Looks like MIDI note values.
			0x03: ADSR decay index. 8-bit uint.
			0x04: Envelope offset. 32-bit uint. Offset from the start of the
				  bank.
			0x08: 3 tuned sample slots. 3 x 8 bytes.

		Both instruments and drums reference envelopes through an offset (from
		the start of the bank, of course). I've never encountered null envelope
		offsets, I don't know if they are allowed.
		I don't know what the ADSR decay index is used for. The referenced
		envelopes are typical four-point (ADSR) envelopes.

	Envelopes
		Four-point envelopes. Each envelope point is made up of two signed
		16-bit integers. The decomp calls these "delay" and "arg". I'm assuming
		these are a rate and a level, respectively. The first one is the rate,
		the second one is the level. My assumption is these are used as TVA
		envelopes, but I haven't looked into it.

		According to the decomp, some negative rate values have special
		meanings. These values are 0 (ADSR_DISABLE), -1 (ADSR_HANG), -2
		(ADSR_GOTO) and -3 (ADSR_RESTART). I don't know what the actual effects
		of these are.

	Samples
		Each sample references one book and one loop. I've never encountered
		null values for those offsets.

		Sample (16 bytes)
			0x0: Sample format. 8-bit bitfield.
			0x1: Size. 24-bit uint.
			0x4: Audio offset. 32-bit uint. Absolute address of the audio within
				 the audio file (audiotable).
			0x8: Loop offset. 32-bit uint. Offset from the start of the bank.
			0xC: Book offset. 32-bit uint. Offset from the start of the bank.

		Sample format
			unknown: 1 (top bit)
    		codec: 3, enum
    		medium: 2, enum
    		unknown2: 1
    		is_relocated: 1

		Codec
			ADPCM4,
    		S8, // 16 2-byte samples (32 bytes) compressed into 8-bit samples (16 bytes)
    		S16_INMEMORY,
    		ADPCM2,
    		REVERB,
    		S16,
    		UNK,
    		UNK2 //treated as uncompressed

		Medium
			RAM,
    		UNK,
    		CART,
    		DISK_DRIVE,
    		RAM_UNLOADED = 5

		Different samples may point to the same books or loops.
		Samples as stored in ROM all have the medium set to RAM instead of CART,
		for some reason.
		All samples as stored in ROM use either ADPCM4 or ADPCM2.

	Loops
		Loop (16 or 48 bytes)
			0x00: Start. 32-bit uint.
			0x04: Loop end. 32-bit uint. Number of samples.
			0x08: Count. 32-bit uint. The number of times the loop will be
				  played. Max value means loop until release.
			0x0C: Sample end. 32-bit uint. Number of samples.
			0x10: Predictor state. 16 16-bit ints. Only exists if count is not
				  0.

		The decomp doesn't specify if start is an address or a number of
		samples. I'm going to assume it's the latter, since loop end and sample
		end are sample counts.
		I suppose start works as both the loop start and a start offset. The
		samples themselves already contain a size, so sample end exists only to
		cut samples short.

		Predictor state is likely there because when jumping back to the start
		of the loop the most recently decoded samples would belong to the last
		frame in the loop, not the one before the first frame. It's probably 16
		uncompressed samples, but you should only need the last few
		(corresponding to the book's order).
		I'm not sure why it would be 16 samples long. I suppose it doesn't take
		the sample's book's parameters into account, so it includes the maximum
		number of samples that could ever be needed. The documentation I read
		said the maximum value for order is 8, but the size of the loop's
		predictor state would seem to point to 16 being the maximum allowed
		order (if my hypothesis is correct).

		I'm not sure why loops are detached from samples either, considering the
		predictor state (if it is what I think it is) would only be valid for a
		specific sample. That's assuming the start and end values would somehow
		work for other samples, too. Furthermore, if you wanna have different
		loops for the same sample, you're going to have to add a copy of the
		sample that points to a different loop. Maybe it would have made more
		sense to reference loops from tuned samples and not samples themselves.

	Books
		Variable-size sets of variable coefficients. These are used for audio
		decoding.

		Book (variable size, order * num_predictors * 8)
			0x0: Order. 32-bit uint.
			0x4: Number of predictors. 32-bit uint.
			0x8: Coefficients. A variable number of 16-bit signed integers.

		A book can be thought of as a 3-dimensional array, with the number of
		predictors as the size of the first dimension and order as the size of
		the second dimension. The final dimension's size is always 8.
		The total size is thus order * num_predictors * 8.

		Books are stored as [predictor_0][order_0][0], [predictor_0][order_0][1]
		... [predictor_0][order_0][8], [predictor_0][order_1][0] ...
		[predictor_0][order_n][8], [predictor_1][order_0] [0]... So they're
		stored in the obvious way; no interleaving, no transposing. The decomp
		does transpose each predictor, however.

VADPCM
	There's at least two variants depending on the size of the compressed
	samples, 4 bits or 2 bits. They're both treated in the same way. No extra
	scaling is applied to the 2-bit one, or at least it's not hardcoded (it
	might just use higher scale values). N64 Zeldas use both variants.

	Books
		VADPCM uses variable coefficient sets, usually refered to as "books".
		Coefficients are signed 16-bit integers. Usually, each "file" uses its
		own book.

		Books can be thought of as arrays of 3 dimensions.
		The first dimension, the number of predictors, is variable in size. What
		documentation I found indicates its length may be at most 8; although MM
		stores the number of predictors as a 32-bit int, and the way the VADPCM
		data is stored makes it possible to address up to 16 predictors per
		book.
		The second dimension is the order and correlates with the history's
		depth. It seems that this too should be limited to 8 or less; although,
		yet again, MM stores it as a 32-bit int.
		The final dimension is always of length 8.
		
		To summarize, a book may be though of as [n_predictors] pages of [order]
		sets of 8 coefficients; or an array such as book[n_predictors][order]
		[8]. Do note that some tooling treats books as [n_predictors] pages of 8
		sets of [order + 8] coefficients.
		
	Frames
		VADPCM-compressed audio is split into frames. MM uses 16-sample frames;
		9-byte frames for VADPCM4, 5-byte frames for VADPCM2.

		A VADPCM frame consists of one header byte (the first one) and a
		variable number of compressed-audio bytes.
		The header byte encodes the predictor and scale to be used for the
		frame's duration. The lower nibble indicates which predictor to use as a
		0-based index. The upper nibble encodes the scale expressed as a left
		shift.
	
	Primitive frames
		The codec was designed to be decoded in 8-sample batches, regardless of
		frame size. I oftentimes call these batches sub-frames or primitive
		frames.
	
	History
		At the start of the sub-frame, the history should contain the last
		[order] fully decoded samples. It should grow to [order + 8] over the
		sub-frame's duration by appending the current sub-frame's extracted and
		scaled samples (the values before adding their respective predicted
		values).

	Decoding a sample can be divided into roughly three parts.

	The first part is extracting it from the byte that contains it,
	sign-extending it and scaling it. Because we're dealing with typical signed
	audio, it's safer to multiply by 1 << scale; rather than shift directly.
	
	The second part is using the coefficients and history to get the predicted
	value. For all 8 samples; you must first multiply the previous
	last-order coefficients by the previous samples depending on the position
	within the sub-frame. Then, multiply the [order] coefficients with the
	oldest [order] samples, respectively, using the position within the
	sub-frame as a 0-7 index for the book's last dimension.
	For example, if [order] is 2 and you're decoding the 6th sample within a
	sub-frame, you would multiply the previous 5 2nd-order coefficients by the 5
	most recent samples in the history and add them to the accumulator. Then,
	you would multiply the 1st and 2nd-order coefficients at index 5 with the
	next 2 most recent samples and add them to the accumulator. Within a
	subframe, the history grows to a length of [order + 7]. Technically; the
	history grows to [order + 8], but that last value never matters.
	
	The last step is to add the predicted value (the accumulator) either shifted
	right by 11, or divided by 1 << 11, onto the previously extracted and scaled
	value.
	The MM decomp's tooling says to divide by 1 << 11 and round down; but
	integer division usually rounds toward 0 by default, so it wouldn't need to
	go out of its way to round the value if that were what it wanted. On the
	other hand; right-shifting is the easiest way to divide rounding toward
	negative infinity, if that's what it wanted, but it's not what it does. Not
	sure what's going on there.
	
	The result should be a 16-bit signed integer.

	Additional information
		The codec was apparently designed to be implemented with the RSP, not
		the CPU. The 8-sample primitive frame size and 8-coefficient set size
		likely stem from the RSP's 8 x 16-bit (128-bit total) Vector Unit.

		What I'm curious about is how exactly it handles the predictor math.
		Most, if not all, implementations I've seen rely on 32-bit math for
		that. The documentation I've read doesn't mention the VU having any
		32-bit capabilities, although it does mention a "48-bit final
		accumulator".

		I'm also unsure how it handles the [order] history samples and using
		different sets of coefficients for each sample within the primitive
		(8-sample) frame.
		The latter I suppose is implemented in a similar manner to how the
		decomp's tooling's decoder does it; ie. treating the history and
		coefficients as vectors and running a pass for each pair (history + one
		coef set) of vectors. This requires some extra processing on the books
		upon loading; namely, loading them transposed and expanding each set by
		appending the previous last-order coefficients.
		The former is what stumps me. The history and coefficient sets end up
		being [order - 1 + 8]-elements long (technically 10 elements in the
		decomp's tooling's implementation, but neither 10th element is ever
		used). How those are supposed to work with the RSP's 8-wide VU is beyond
		me. Mind you, what I've been calling a history is actually the [order]
		most recent fully decoded samples and the 8 extracted and scaled samples
		in the current frame.

		Regardless, SIMD is fairly popular so implementing this in a way true to
		SGI's intent should be doable in any reasonably modern ISA. On x86, for
		example, SSE2 should lend itself fairly well to this. The lower register
		count (8 x86 XMM regs vs. 32 RSP VU regs) might pose a bit of a problem,
		although x86-64 should be fine (16 XMM regs).
